.TH DFU-UTIL 1 "February 29, 2008"
.SH NAME
dfu-util \- Device firmware update (DFU) USB programmer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dfu-util \fR[\fB\-ldpciatUDRhvV\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dfu-util
is a program that implements the host (computer) side of the USB DFU
(Universal Serial Bus Device Firmware Upgrade) protocol.
.sp
In the OpenMoko project (for example), this program is used to communicate
with the specially enhanced u-boot boot loader, which implements the DFU
device side.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-l, \-\-list"
List the currently attached DFU capable USB devices.
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-device" " VENDOR:PRODUCT"
Specify vendor/product ID of the DFU device. Both
.B VENDOR
and
.B PRODUCT
are hexadecimal numbers (no prefix needed).
Example:
.sp
.B "  $ dfu-util --device 1457:51ab"
.sp
If you only have one standards-compliant DFU device attached to your PC,
this is optional. However, as soon as you have multiple DFU devices,
dfu-util will detect this and abort, asking you to specify which device
it shall use.
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-path" " BUS-PORT. ... .PORT"
Specify the path to the DFU device.
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-cfg" " CONFIG-NR"
Specify the configuration of the DFU device.
.TP
.BR "\-i, \-\-intf" " INTF-NR"
Specify the DFU interface number.
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-alt" " ALT"
Specify the altsetting of the DFU interface by name or by number.
.TP
.B "\-t, \-\-transfer-size"
Specify the number of bytes per USB transfer. If you don't supply this
option, the maximum possible size for your combination of host OS and
USB device is chosen (for optimal performance).
.TP
.BR "\-U, \-\-upload" " FILE"
Read firmware from device into
.BR FILE .
.sp
.B Note:
Upload support is currently broken.
.TP
.BR "\-D, \-\-download" " FILE"
Write firmware from
.B FILE
into device.
.TP
.B "\-R, \-\-reset"
Issue USB reset signalling once we are finished.
.TP
.B "\-s, \-\-dfuse-address"
Specify target address for raw binary download/upload on DfuSe devices.
Do not use this for downloading DfuSe files.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Show a help text and exit.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Print more information about dfu-util's operation. A second
.B -v
will turn on verbose logging of USB requests.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are some examples for the usage of dfu-util in the OpenMoko project
(working with the Neo1973 hardware):
.PP
Flashing the rootfs:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a rootfs -R -D /path/to/openmoko-devel-image.jffs2"
.PP
Flashing the kernel:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a kernel -R -D /path/to/uImage"
.PP
Flashing the bootloader:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a u-boot -R -D /path/to/u-boot.bin"
.PP
Copying a kernel into RAM:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a 0 -R -D /path/to/uImage"
.sp
Once this has finished, the kernel will be available at the default load
address of 0x32000000 in Neo1973 RAM.
.sp
.B Note:
You cannot transfer more than 2MB of data into RAM using this method.
.SH BUGS
Please see
.B http://wiki.openmoko.org/wiki/Dfu-util
for some limitations and bugs in the current dfu-util code.
.PP
Please report any further bugs at on the openmoko mailing list at
.BR openmoko@lists.openmoko.org .
.SH LICENCE
.B dfu-util
is covered by the GNU General Public License (GPL), version 2 or later.
.SH AUTHORS
Weston Schmidt <weston_schmidt@yahoo.com>
.br
Harald Welte <hwelte@hmw-consulting.de>
.PP
This manual page was written by Uwe Hermann <uwe@hermann-uwe.de>.
It is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPL (version 2 or later).
